Narrator:
The "Amen Break" was originally
a four-measure drum break
created in the 1960s
that has gradually become
one of the most remixed
and most sampled clips
in music history.
We're going to look at how
to create the "Amen Break"
in EarSketch
and also how to use
randomness to remix
the Amen break.
First let's look at
how to create it.
I have an array here
of drum sounds from
the EarSketch sound library—
a kick sound, snare sound,
and some hi-hats.
Then down here I'm going
to use makeBeat to create
the "amenBreak."
And I've broken up
my beatStrings
into several parts here
to make it easier to manage.
Each one of these represents
one measure of music.
And so I have a, b and c
for the kick and snare sounds,
and cymbal 1, 2, and 3
for the hi-hat sounds.
This not only makes it easier
to see how the music works
since we've got
four measures to deal with,
but it also lets me
take advantage
of the inherent repetition
of measures 1 and 2
of the amenBreak.
So you can see here,
define amenBreak
as being a + a—
there's the repetition— + b + c.
And amenCymbals as being
cymbal 1 + cymbal 1—
again there's the repetition—
plus cymbal 2 plus cymbal 3.
And then I have
two makeBeat calls here,
which put those two beatStrings—
amenBreak and amenCymbals—
on tracks 1 and 2 of the DAW.
And then I can hear the complete
amenBreak from there.
[electronic drum beats]
So let's go ahead
and remix this.
And what I want to do
is I want to create
a half a measure
that's eight characters
that are randomly generated
and inserted into the middle
of the amenBreak.
So first let's create
those characters,
those eight random characters.
I'm going to define this
as a string, var, insertSection,
and I'll define it
as the empty string initially,
beginning and end quotes
the nothing in the middle.
Then I'll fill up that string
using concatenation
inside of a for loop.
So for (var i= 0; i < 8; i++).
Then inside of this loop,
on each iteration,
I'm going to take
insertSection
and add one more character
onto the end of it
through concatenation.
So insertSection = insertSection
plus some random operation.
I want that random operations
generate either 0, 1, 2, 3,
or 4 every time,
because if you look back
at my array,
the indices
are 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4.
So I can start to get at that
by doing Math.random—
that gives me a random number
between 0 and 1.
I can multiply
that random number by 5—
that gives me a random
number between 0 and 5,
not including 5.
There's a problem with that
because that's
a floating point number
with decimal points,
but I want an array index
which is just
an integer—0, 1, 2, 3, or 5.
So I can add on
one more function here.
I can take
that whole random result
and call Math.floor on it—
that takes
whatever number that is
and returns the integer
just below it.
So if that number
is 4.01 or 4.98575,
it would return 4 to me.
So once I've run that
I can also put in a println
statement to see
what this insertSection string
looks like when it's all done.
So when I press run I can see
I get a random string here
in my console,
in this case a string
of random numbers—
zero, one, two, three, and four.
My music hasn't
changed yet at all, though,
because I haven't done anything
to actually put
this insertSection string
into the amenBreak.
So to do that I need to define
a few more variables.
I'm going to define one
called newA.
And what I want newA to do
is to take insertSection—
so that's eight characters,
half a measure—
but I want it to be
a whole measure of music.
So I want to add on
half of my original a string.
So I have
insertSection + a.substring.
I want to take
the second half of it
so I'll start at character 8
and I'll end in character 16.
We can actually
print this out as well
just to make sure
it's what we think it is.
So again you can see here
we have first half
is a randomly generated string
and then the second half
is the second half
of my original a string.
So then finally I can define
one more variable.
I'll call it newBeat
and have that be a +, not a + a,
but have it be a + newA + b + c.
Then instead of inserting
amenBreak here,
I can insert newBeat.
I can run that and I can hear
my remixed amenBreak.
[electronic drum beats]
That remix is
a little bit subtle,
so it may also help to also see
what we've done visually.
So I can go ahead
and println(amenBreak)
and then also println(newBeat)
so that we can compare them
to each other in the console.
So here you can see, again,
the only difference are
these randomly generated numbers
right here.
So what we've done
is we've used random numbers,
string operations,
to remix the amenBreak
with makeBeat.